Pass the Green Poupon: Bentley launches Flying Spur Hybrid | Driving Skip to Content Sections Search Search driving.ca Perform search Driving Main Menu Search driving.ca Perform search News New Vehicles Technology Awards and Surveys Info For Drivers Industry News Entertainment Crash, Bang, Wow Local Content Auto Shows Reviews Previews First Drives Road Tests Comparison Tests Road Trips Reader Reviews Owner Reviews Vehicle Types Pickup Trucks Luxury Vehicles Supercars Electric Vehicles Hybrids Family Vehicles Affordable Vehicles Performance Vehicles Classic Cars & Trucks Used Vehicles Motorcycles Comment Motor Mouth Lorraine Complains/Explains Driving By Numbers Troubleshooter Corner Wrench How It Works Plugged In Rearview Mirror On the Road Collector Classics Advice Maintenance Safety Insurance Gear Guide Winter Driving Shopping Advice New Car Deals Best in Class More Features Car Culture Speed & Performance Vintage & Collectible Off-roading Technology & Innovation Sustainability People Travel Top 10s and Lists Buyer's Guide Car Compare Video Podcasts Newsletters News Reviews Vehicle Types Comment Advice Car Culture Buyer's Guide Car Compare Video Podcasts Newsletters Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Breadcrumb Trail Links New Vehicles Luxury Vehicles Hybrids Pass the Green Poupon: Bentley launches Flying Spur Hybrid The electrified uber-luxurious four-door packs over 500 horses but can travel solely on electricity Author of the article: Matthew Guy Publishing date: Jul 30, 2021 • 6 hours ago • 2 minute read • Join the conversation Article content Billed as a glimpse into a big-money future, the machine shown here is a limited edition version of the new Bentley Flying Spur Hybrid. Bentley also calls it the first mainstream production vehicle to implement design influences from the EXP 100 GT concept car, though anyone blessed with the gift of sight will immediately recognize this beast as pure Bentley. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The crew from Crewe say its electrified hybrid powertrain, a tag team comprised of a 2.9L V6 gasoline-powered engine and an electric motor, is good for 536 bhp and 553 lb-ft of torque. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Pass the Green Poupon: Bentley launches Flying Spur Hybrid Back to video That’s an additional 95 bhp compared to the Bentayga Hybrid, by the way. They allege the Flying Spur Hybrid “gives nothing away” to the Flying Spur V8 in terms of acceleration, reaching 100 km/h from a standstill in just 4.3 seconds. Toggle full screen mode Previous Gallery Image Next Gallery Image Toggle gallery captions View All 6 Photos 1 of 6 All 6 Photos for Gallery Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content It’s all part of Bentley’s journey towards electrification and the recently announced Beyond100 strategy, an angle set to deliver a product range composed entirely of plug-in hybrids or battery electric vehicles by 2026. According to the company, over 90 per cent of customers use their Bentayga Hybrid several times a week, and nearly 100 per cent of owners use EV mode. Half of those people consistently travel less than 50 km at a time. The Flying Spur Hybrid is capable of travelling about 40 km on electricity alone in the right conditions, meaning the 1 per cent may not need to fuel this luxurious sedan very often. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Speaking of luxury, the Flying Spur Hybrid is all Bentley, crafted with sumptuous materials that keep one eye on sustainability. The company points out that the open-pore interior veneers use 90 per cent less lacquer than a high-gloss finish, for example, while panels of crafted tweed are made from 100 per cent British wool — though we assume they won’t ask for a cup of tea when the day’s travel has finished. More On This Topic First Look: 2021 Bentley Bentayga The Bentley Bentayga can now be ordered with 22-inch carbon-fibre wheels Its exterior is laden with typically over-the-top Bentley cues, including 21-inch wheels and an array of brightware on lower parts of the body. A so-called “curated palette” of six exterior paint colours are recommended to harmonise with the trim accents but buyers can select from the full Bentley palette. Thank goodness; your author was about to lose sleep. The new Flying Spur Hybrid is available to order in most markets right now. Go check the couch for spare change. Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Pass the Green Poupon: Bentley launches Flying Spur Hybrid Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Trending 9 Trailering no-nos from Ontario highways First Drive: 2022 Genesis GV70 Sport Plus Ahead of the Curve: 6 things Cadillac did before anyone else Pickup Review: 2021 Toyota Tundra 4x4 CrewMax SR5 Dude, where's your truck? Western premier's defence of pickups sparks cross-country Twitter tempest Driving.ca's Blind-Spot Monitor Sign up to receive Driving.ca's Blind-Spot Monitor newsletter on Wednesdays and Saturdays Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Driving.ca's Blind-Spot Monitor will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Reviews Vehicle Types Comment Advice Car Culture Buyer's Guide Follow the Driving Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Driving, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK
