Cars to drive to the strangest-named towns in Atlantic Canada | Driving Skip to Content Sections Search Search driving.ca Perform search Driving Main Menu Search driving.ca Perform search News New Vehicles Technology Awards and Surveys Info For Drivers Industry News Entertainment Crash, Bang, Wow Local Content Auto Shows Reviews Previews First Drives Road Tests Comparison Tests Road Trips Reader Reviews Owner Reviews Vehicle Types Pickup Trucks Luxury Vehicles Supercars Electric Vehicles Hybrids Family Vehicles Affordable Vehicles Performance Vehicles Classic Cars & Trucks Used Vehicles Motorcycles Comment Motor Mouth Lorraine Complains/Explains Driving By Numbers Troubleshooter Corner Wrench How It Works Plugged In Rearview Mirror On the Road Collector Classics Advice Maintenance Safety Insurance Gear Guide Winter Driving Shopping Advice New Car Deals Best in Class More Features Car Culture Speed & Performance Vintage & Collectible Off-roading Technology & Innovation Sustainability People Travel Top 10s and Lists Buyer's Guide Car Compare Video Podcasts Newsletters News Reviews Vehicle Types Comment Advice Car Culture Buyer's Guide Car Compare Video Podcasts Newsletters Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Breadcrumb Trail Links Travel Top 10s and Lists Local Content Entertainment Alpha Beat: Cars to drive to the strangest-named towns in Atlantic Canada There's no shortage of amusing appellations down east Author of the article: Matthew Guy Publishing date: Jul 30, 2021 • 6 hours ago • 5 minute read • Join the conversation Ford Probe Article content We created this list for two reasons. First, with the current state of world events, most of us could use a good laugh. Second, most of us around here have an inner nine-year old who snickers every time someone tells us they hail from Stoner, British Columbia (it’s about 40 minutes south of Prince George, if you’re wondering). Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Denizens of the Atlantic Provinces are known for having a wicked sense of humour, one likely cultivated in order to cope with weather patterns in which what falls from the sky is simply not to be believed. A good vocabulary and an ample imagination also help, creating place names likely not uttered in the presence of a local vicar. Others simply seem as if the founders dumped a box of Alpha Bits on the table and made a word. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Alpha Beat: Cars to drive to the strangest-named towns in Atlantic Canada Back to video Map in hand, we decided to seek out some of Atlantic Canada’s strangest place names and — as a bunch of insufferable gearheads — pair them with a vehicle we would like to drive there. In the same vein, by the way, your author harbours a desire to take a friend named Patrick and pilot a Dodge Viper or Shelby Cobra out of Ireland. Maybe next year. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Ford Probe: Dildo, Newfoundland and Labrador How could we begin a juvenile list such as this with any other municipality? The town was always on the radar for a good joke, but its popularity skyrocketed after late-night talk show host Jimmy Kimmel discovered the place and featured it repeatedly on his program. Your Newfoundland-born author will tell you an area called Spread Eagle is close by, so named for geography which resembles an eagle in full flight when viewed from the air. Get yer mind outta’ the gutter. Chevrolet Spark LS: Lower Economy, Nova Scotia This isn’t a knock on the customer demographic of this vehicle, rather a tongue-in-cheek assessment of the Spark’s rock-bottom price, which gives used cars a run for their money at just a hair over $10,000. More than a few people would apparently rather sign the note for that sum on a vehicle with a new car smell and full warranty than one which has been previously owned by other people. This is a compelling argument. As for the town, the first word in its name is actually a locating device, given that Middle Economy and Upper Economy are located nearby. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content More On This Topic The most amusing names for car features we've ever seen Did you know these 10 car names were actually acronyms? Toyota Avalon: Cardigan, Prince Edward Island One of the oldest communities on the eastern part of the island, the town of Cardigan takes its name from Earl of Cardigan, a British lord who eventually became Prince of Wales. With that history lesson out of the way, we challenge readers to come up with a sedan that’s better equipped to be the vehicular equivalent of a plain cardigan than the Toyota Avalon. Sure, recent iterations include the mystifying Avalon TRD, but early examples were so inoffensive they’d fade into the background more quickly than a boring article of clothing — especially when beige paint was selected. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Ferrari Testarossa: Cocagne, New Brunswick You’d have to look pretty hard to find a vehicle more representative of the go-go 1980s than a bespoilered and side-straked Testarossa — especially when painted white. We’ll place the wild Lamborghini Countach in this group as well, again painted white and perhaps with a fine powder covering most of its interior upholstery. They’re the perfect whip in which to visit this New Brunswick town, settled by the Acadians and English and likely named for the Cocagne river. Any Brodozer: Balls Creek, Nova Scotia One joke. Photo by twitter Some stereotypes are so far off the mark that they invite offence with their outmoded and outdated labels. But there are a few — especially in the world of pickup trucks — that are generally right on the money. A distasteful accessory which hangs down from a truck’s towing hitch or part of its chassis needs no explanation, though you should switch on your browser’s safe search settings should you decide to Google what we’re talking about. And, no, there is no apostrophe in the official spelling of this Nova Scotia place. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Chevrolet SS: Nameless Cove, Newfoundland and Labrador According to local lore, this municipality’s moniker once bore the pretty name of Flower’s Cove, so-called not because of an abundance of flora, but thanks to the surname of the area’s first lightkeeper. A larger community nearby, going by the title French Island Harbour, ditched their name after the francophones left and chose a replacement name of — you guessed it — Flower’s Cove, leaving the former sans titre. As for the car, it’s hard to imagine a more milquetoast name for a performance vehicle than what was once a trim level on mighty vehicles like the old-school Chevelle, which is what the SS should have been called in the first place. Mazda MX-5: Heart’s Desire, Newfoundland and Labrador Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Our praise for the nifty and sporty Mazda MX-5 is well documented, as it is for just about every red-blooded gearhead who’s ever climbed behind its wheel. Its near-perfect weight distribution — actually, its lack of weight overall — combined with an expertly-sorted drivetrain creates the type of driving experience that’s a rarity in today’s sanitized and sterile world. The nearby locales of Heart’s Delight and Heart’s Content are suitable destinations for this car, as well. Toyota Prius: Ebenezer, Prince Edward Island Located nearly smack-dab in the middle of the island in Queens County, this place is a wealth of rolling farmland and is a short drive from popular tourist attractions. Likely named for various and sundry biblical references, it also puts us in mind of the penny-pinching protagonist found in the works of Charles Dickens. As one of the first mass-market hybrid vehicles to find widespread consumer success, the Toyota Prius continues to eke as many kilometres as possible from a litre of gasoline. While a variety of all-electric EVs get all the press, the Prius continues act like Scrooge when it comes to fuel mileage. Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Alpha Beat: Cars to drive to the strangest-named towns in Atlantic Canada Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Trending 9 Trailering no-nos from Ontario highways First Drive: 2022 Genesis GV70 Sport Plus Ahead of the Curve: 6 things Cadillac did before anyone else Pickup Review: 2021 Toyota Tundra 4x4 CrewMax SR5 Dude, where's your truck? Western premier's defence of pickups sparks cross-country Twitter tempest Driving.ca's Blind-Spot Monitor Sign up to receive Driving.ca's Blind-Spot Monitor newsletter on Wednesdays and Saturdays Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Driving.ca's Blind-Spot Monitor will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Reviews Vehicle Types Comment Advice Car Culture Buyer's Guide Follow the Driving Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Driving, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK
