CBD may help reduce binge eating in mice: study | The Growthop Skip to Content Sections Search Search thegrowthop.com Perform search The GrowthOp Share Share this Story: CBD may help reduce binge eating in mice: study Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Main Menu Search thegrowthop.com Perform search News Business International Sports Celebs Legalization Politics Events Psychedelics Reviews Strains Edibles Vapes Concentrates Accessories Creams Gelcaps Life Food Travel Love & Sex Money Work Culture Wellness Health Fitness Beauty Videos Newsletter Summer Guide 2021 News Reviews Life Wellness Videos Newsletter Summer Guide 2021 Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: CBD may help reduce binge eating in mice: study Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links World News News Health CBD CBD may help reduce binge eating in mice: study The author claims the effects of CBD on binge-eating behaviours have not been studied to date. Author of the article: Emma Spears Publishing date: Jul 30, 2021 • 12 hours ago • 2 minute read • Join the conversation The aim of the latest study was to determine whether or not CBD affects homeostatic feeding or binge-eating behaviour in mice. / Photo by artisteer / iStock / Getty Images Plus Article content Some have touted cannabidiol (CBD) as a cure-all for a long list of health conditions, including pain and anxiety. But according to a 2021 small study from the University of Helsinki, that list could be expanded in the future to include using the cannabinoid as a treatment for certain eating disorders. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Although binge eating disorder (BED) is among the most common eating disorders, treatment options are lacking compared to better-known illnesses such as Bulimia nervosa and Anorexia nervosa. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. CBD may help reduce binge eating in mice: study Back to video The aim of the latest study was to determine whether or not CBD affects homeostatic feeding or binge-eating behaviour in mice. More On This Topic Could CBD help treat smokeless tobacco addiction? Go to sleep: Study shows medicinal weed helped chronic insomniacs get some shut-eye It took doctors a year to diagnose her Lyme disease. Bedridden and in pain, she turned to cannabis Previous studies involving mice and CBD have spurred different findings: the cannabinoid may have an anti-depressant effect on mice; it does not have a detrimental effect the spatial learning or motor function of mice; and CBD may increase mice anxiety. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content However, the study author notes the effects of CBD on binge-eating behaviours have not been studied to date, on either rodent nor human subjects. For the study, the researcher conducted five separate experiments. These included investigating the effects of CBD on locomotor activity; monitoring the effects of CBD on homeostatic feeding (which occurs in response to the brain’s perceived energy needs) in non-binge-eating mice; providing mice constant access to food, but with a high-energy, high-fat diet (HED) for 24 hours every five to eight days; monitoring food intake without dosing CBD; and examining whether or not the effects of CBD can be inhibited by the TRPV1 receptor antagonist AMG9810. “In each test, the food intake was monitored at the time point 0.5, 2.5, and 24 hours after CBD treatment. Also, water consumption was measured in each experiment,” the author reports. “The findings indicate that the acute systemic administration of CBD reduces HED intake and, possibly, simultaneously increases chow intake, suggesting a balancing effect on feeding in bingeing mice,” he writes. “However, the role of TRPV1 in this effect remains unclear, and further studies are needed.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Subscribe to Weekend Dispensary, a new weekly newsletter from The GrowthOp. Share this article in your social network Share this Story: CBD may help reduce binge eating in mice: study Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Latest National Stories Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Weekend Dispensary Sign-up for Weekend Dispensary to get the latest cannabis news and exclusive articles delivered straight to your inbox. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Weekend Dispensary will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Massive OPP find yields ‘four dump trucks’ full of illicit cannabis plants Seth Rogen’s cannabis brand, Houseplant, and Canopy Growth agree to part ways Using cannabis not linked to loss of motivation: study Vancouver company receives federal licence to work with all natural psychedelics, including ayahuasca Study: THC use among geriatric trauma patients ups risk of thromboembolic complications This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Reviews Life Wellness Videos Newsletter Summer Guide 2021 Follow the The GrowthOp Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 The GrowthOp, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK Hey, are you 19+? It’s nothing personal, we just have to ask in accordance with the law of your province to access this website Discover everything you need to know about cannabis, from health and lifestyle to business and investing. Stay up-to-date with engaging and insightful content from The GrowthOp, the premium destination for cannabis news and views. You are not old enough to view this content. You have entered an invalid date. Please confirm your date of birth: Date Month Year Remember me Yes, I am 19 years or older Discover everything you need to know about cannabis, from health and lifestyle to business and investing. Stay up-to-date with engaging and insightful content from The GrowthOp, the premium destination for cannabis news and views. By submitting this form, you agree to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy of this website and its contents.
